DOC-14248-Encryption-At-Rest-Backup1 (#4131)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/manage/pages/manage-backup-and-restore/manage-backup-and-restore.adoc

The remainder of the current page describes how to configure and use the Backup Service, using Couchbase Web Console.

== Encryption at Rest for Backup

Encryption at rest for backup ensures that backup data is encrypted before it is written to disk, protecting sensitive information from unauthorized access even if the underlying storage media is compromised. Backup repositories can be encrypted using the centralized Encryption-at-Rest framework provided by Couchbase Server.

When encryption at rest is enabled for a backup repository, all data — including key-value documents, index definitions, and metadata — is encrypted using strong cryptographic algorithms before being persisted to the backup archive. Restore operations on encrypted repositories require access to the appropriate decryption material (either a passphrase or external Key Management Service credentials) to read the backup data.

=== Key Concepts
Encryption at rest for backups uses an envelope encryption model:
* Repository Encryption Key — An auto-generated encryption key that is used to encrypt the actual backup data. This key is created when the encrypted repository is configured.

> * Data Encryption Keys (DEKs) — Derived keys are created per backup, per bucket, and per vBucket to avoid issues with repeated nonces. This ensures cryptographic safety even for very large datasets.

Reviewer: 1) There are no per-backup level keys

2) The bucket keys are randomly generated, not derived from another key.

Author: fixed

* Key Encryption Keys (KEKs) — The repository encryption key is itself encrypted (enveloped) using either a passphrase-derived key or an external key from a Key Management Service (KMS).

> For more information about the core encryption-at-rest architecture, including DEKs and KEKs, see xref:learn/security/encryption-at-rest-keys.adoc[Encryption at Rest Keys].

Reviewer: This is very slightly misleading - the encryption-at-rest configuration for the rest of server (what I assume this links to) is completely separate to the backup configuration. This should be made clear in the docs

Author: This topic is all about encryption at rest Keys. I've reworded it to:
For more information, see xref:learn/security/encryption-at-rest-keys.adoc[Encryption at Rest Keys].

(For more information, see xref:manage:manage-backup-and-restore/manage-backup-and-restore.adoc#default-plans[Default Plans], below.)
+
Click the control that appears at the right-hand side of the *Select plan* dialog's interactive text-field.

> A dropdown menu appears with the following options:

Author: mixed terminology used across CB docs. Leaving this as is for now.

+
The *Period* field allows specification of the frequency of the task.
If the default selection, *Weekly Calendar*, is chosen, this specifies a daily backup according to details added lower in the panel for the task.
Alternatively, to choose a specific frequency, access the control on the *Period* field.

> A dropdown menu appears:

Author: not adding "right-hand" side as per Vale flagging and leaving drop down as is for now.

> A dropdown menu appears:

Reviewer 2: The sentence can end with a period. No need of : "A dropdown menu appears:"
We can say "A dropdown menu appears."

+
image::manage-backup-restore/periodPullDownMenu.png[,420,align=left]
+

> From the dropdown menu, select *Hours*, to set the frequency is in units of hours.

Author: mixed terminology used across CB docs. Leaving this as is for now.

> From the dropdown menu, select *Hours*, to set the frequency is in units of hours.

Reviewer 2: Somehow, the above sentence is not sounding correct. I feel it should be changed to one of the following: 
Option 1: "From the dropdown menu, select **Hours** to set the frequency in units of hours."
Option 2: "Select **Hours** from the dropdown menu to measure the frequency in hours."
Option 3: "From the dropdown menu, select **Hours**. This sets the frequency unit to hours."

> From the dropdown menu, select *Hours*, to set the frequency is in units of hours.

Author: Have made it "From the dropdown menu, select Hours to set the frequency in units of hours."

To make sure that the hourly task is performed on the hour, leave these numbers as *00*.
+
In the *Type* field, specify the task to be performed, by accessing the control at the right-hand side of the field.
This displays the following dropdown menu:
+

> Select *Backup*, from the dropdown menu.

Author: mixed terminology used across CB docs. Leaving this as is for now.

For example, `hourlyBackupRepo`.
+
The *Bucket* should be the name of either a Couchbase or an Ephemeral bucket, whose data is to be backed up.

> Selection can be made with a dropdown menu, accessed by means of the control at the right of the field.

Author: mixed terminology used across CB docs. Leaving this as is for now.

> Selection can be made with a dropdown menu, accessed by means of the control at the right of the field.

Reviewer 2: Felt this might be better and more concise --> "Selection can be made using the pull-down menu on the right side of the field."

> Selection can be made with a dropdown menu, accessed by means of the control at the right of the field.

Author: have overall changed it to:
The *Bucket* should be the name of either a Couchbase or an Ephemeral bucket, whose data is to be backed up.
You can select a bucket from the dropdown menu next to the field.
If you select a specific bucket-name, only data from this bucket is backed up.
If you select *All buckets*, data from all buckets on the cluster (including all Couchbase and all Ephemeral buckets) is backed up.

The upper panel of the *Data* screen provides interactive fields labelled *Key* and *Search Path*.
These can be used to search for a specific document within the repository.
Optionally, the subset of backups within the repository can be specified, by means of the *Start* and *End* fields.

> For example, by accessing the control at the left-hand side of the *Start* field, a dropdown menu is displayed: this lists backups any 1 of which can be used as the starting point for the search.

Author: mixed terminology used across CB docs. Leaving this as is for now.

> For example, by accessing the control at the left-hand side of the *Start* field, a dropdown menu is displayed: this lists backups any 1 of which can be used as the starting point for the search.

Reviewer 2: Will it be better if we write the above as "For example, by accessing the control on the left-hand side of the Start field, a dropdown menu is displayed, listing backups. Any of these can be used as the starting point for the search."

> For example, by accessing the control at the left-hand side of the *Start* field, a dropdown menu is displayed: this lists backups any 1 of which can be used as the starting point for the search.

Author: have modified to:
The upper panel of the *Data* screen provides interactive fields labeled *Key* and *Search Path*.
You can use these fields to search for a specific document within the repository.
Optionally, specify the subset of backups within the repository by using the *Start* and *End* fields.
For example, access the control on the *Start* field to open a list menu of available backups, from which you can select a starting point for the search.

The dialog allows determination of which backups should be merged, based on specification of the _first_ and the _last_: these backups, and all backups that occurred between them, will be merged.

. To specify the first backup, access the interactive control at the right-hand side of the *Start* field.

> This produces a dropdown menu that displays all available backups for this repository:

Author: mixed terminology used across CB docs. Leaving this as is for now.

> This produces a dropdown menu that displays all available backups for this repository:

Reviewer 2: It is better to end the sentence with a period and not :

. Select a backup that will be the starting backup for the merge.

> Then, access the control at the right-hand side of the *End* field, and select, from its dropdown menu, a backup that will be the ending backup for the merge.

Author: mixed terminology used across CB docs. Leaving this as is for now.

By default, the restore task exits with an error message if a bucket being restored from the backup does not currently exist in the cluster. 
Selecting *Auto-create Buckets* has the restore task create any missing buckets.

=== Restore Encrypted Backups

Restoring data from an encrypted backup repository requires access to the same decryption material (KMS credentials or passphrase) that was used when the repository was created.
This section describes how restore works with encrypted repositories, the prerequisites, and behavioral differences from restoring unencrypted backups.

When you restore from an encrypted repository, cbbackupmgr or the Backup Service:
. Connects to the KMS (or uses the passphrase) to decrypt the repository encryption key.

> . Uses the decrypted repository key to derive per-backup, per-bucket, and per-vBucket decryption keys.

Reviewer: There are no per-backup keys.

Also, I feel that:

```suggestion
. Uses the decrypted repository key to obtain per-bucket and per-vBucket decryption keys.
```

would be more accurate; the per-bucket key isn't derived - it's decrypted, and the per-vBucket keys are then derived from that

Author: changed it accordingly.

. Decrypts the backup data in memory.
. Sends the decrypted data to the target Couchbase cluster.

The decryption process is transparent — the restore command syntax is the same as for unencrypted restores, with the addition of encryption credential flags.

To restore an encrypted backup using the REST API, see xref:rest-api:backup-restore.adoc[Restore a Backup].

To restore an encrypted backup using the Web Console, follow these steps:

. Navigate to Backup in Couchbase Web Console.
. Expand the encrypted repository and click Restore.
. Enter the target cluster URL, authentication credentials, and backup range.
. Click Restore.

The Backup Service handles decryption automatically using the KMS credentials configured when the repository was created.

Cross-Cluster Restore::

When restoring encrypted backups to a different cluster:

* The target cluster does not need to have encryption at rest enabled.
Encryption at rest for backups is independent of the cluster's own encryption-at-rest configuration.

* The machine performing the restore must still have access to the original KMS key used to encrypt the repository.

> * Encryption-at-rest settings are not backed up or restored as part of the bucket configuration. If you need encryption at rest on the target cluster, configure it separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Encryption-at-rest settings are not restored as part of the bucket configuration. If you need encryption at rest on the target cluster, configure it separately.
```

nit: they are technically backed up.

Author: changed accordingly.

image:manage-backup-restore/simplifiedSchedule.png[,420,align=left]

A *Weekly Calendar* schedule means that 1 backup happens daily.
The time of the daily backup can be specified by means of the *Time* panel.
No merge can be scheduled, nor can backups be scheduled more frequently.

Alternatively scheduled merges and backups can be configured by accessing the control at the left-hand side of the *Period* field:

image:manage-backup-restore/scheduleOptionsMenu.png[,420,align=left]

> The dropdown menu thus displayed contains three kinds of scheduling option.

Author: mixed terminology used across CB docs. Leaving this as is for now.

> The dropdown menu thus displayed contains three kinds of scheduling option.

Reviewer 2: The dropdown menu contains three kinds of scheduling options.

> The dropdown menu thus displayed contains three kinds of scheduling option.

Author: changed to "The dropdown menu contains 3 scheduling options."
